hey everybody this is Terry
today is December 18th and this is the
ipfs local and offline collaboration
group I'm having our monthly column
super excited to get started and a few
different demos today so we will jump
right in
Michael do you want to share your screen
just tell us a little about braid sure
let's see if I can find them buttons for
that on mine it's big green one at the
bottom Center ah right okay okay can you
see this yeah cool okay so and how much
time should I go for it Terry here is
ten minutes all right yeah let's do that
okay so um so I've been working on
braids no braid is an attempt to
decentralize the web using standards
okay so I want to I've prepared this
talk as a bit of a pitch or an argument
I want to see if you guys agree or
disagree that we can centralize the web
just through through like a standards
effort and so we get to take this back
what was kind of like the web like used
to be these closed networks like AOL and
CompuServe they also had a lot of the
features that we have on the web now
like shopping and chat and forums and
stuff like that but they couldn't
connect to each other there's these
giant centralized monoliths and the web
was able to decentralize it was it was a
decentralized alternative that could
out-compete them and the web out
competed them because it there is two
things that it did it made it easier for
people to add new content so when you it
was easier to throw up a website or in a
web page anybody could do it much easier
than it was to convince the CEO of AOL
Steve Case to add your content
AOL and that meant that all of the like
they're about
million programmers out there on the web
they're only you'd only have maybe a
thousand programmers in your company and
a million programmers is gonna be able
to make a lot more stuff in the thousand
programmers and so that meant that a lot
more content was being added the second
thing that that the web did and the web
was able to it was easier to do that
partially because not only do you have a
standard but you have these libraries
that made it so you didn't have to write
most of the code if you're gonna replace
AOL that's a lot of code but if you just
want to put up a web page all you have
to do is write the HTML everybody
already has browsers there are already
servers out there and so that makes a
developer's job a whole lot easier to
add new content now we're too similar
we're at like this at a higher scale now
websites themselves have become the
giant centralized entities and so my
thesis here is that we're gonna be able
to decentralize these websites by
extending the standards again and adding
new libraries that are going to automate
stuff and make the developers lives
easier and then we're going to be able
to out-compete the thousands of
programmers at Facebook with the
millions of programmers on the web and
it's gonna look something more like this
you guys is this can you see the right
side of the screen I don't I'm not sure
yeah I can I - okay good okay okay so
I'm gonna go quickly now through so
braid is an extension to HTTP that adds
some new features it makes it much
easier for you to make websites and it
makes it easier for you to share the
state within web sites and that allows
us to build more of a mesh okay so I'm
gonna so the problem that we're solving
is that the web just it didn't add
enough I'll just take you through so the
web was designed for static pages so
HTTP transfers some HTML from a server
to a client okay and that made a lot of
sense when pages written by hand and
they're but like what happens if the
page changes they didn't have any way to
update the client when the page changes
so they just added this reload button
okay so this is gonna be a common theme
and that was like that made a lot of
sense at the time when pages look like
this
you're writing HTML by hand they're
really not changing that often yeah I
just have a user click reload no problem
but then pages started changing more and
more we started getting these databases
that would generate the actual page and
they might change like every week or
every couple of days or you know when
someone reloads it and so then you had
to you started having this new model you
have a database down here and then in
order to do that well you didn't made an
MVC framework and that was like okay now
we need a way to structure this changing
data model view controller is the
pattern for synchronization for
object-oriented programming that was
developed at Xerox PARC so one way or
whenever we see scene MVC I think this
is a way to synchronize you have some
data in the model you're going to update
multiple views whenever it changes over
time pages started changing more and
more so 2011 like this is a feed of this
is just a facebook feed snapshot it
every day for I'm some student for a
month and then JavaScript started
happening so now you could pay change
the page on the client without hitting
reload and that was pretty cool but you
also wanna be able to get data from the
server so then we added extra XML HTTP
requests and you kind of know that that
API wasn't really thought through cuz
it's called XML uzuki request we don't
use our xml anymore and now we have
pages that are kind of they're changing
all the time
and you actually expect them to be live
updating real time as people change
stuff somewhere else but there's still
this reload button
and what does a reload button do now
well it's just like in case the code
doesn't really work because we have
piles and piles of code and when you
write a web app now you need all this
junk then we add through and react and
this is why web programming just totally
sucks today there's a pile of junk and
all of this is here just to handle
change so this is what we're gonna solve
okay this is all because HTML HTTP
itself just never handled change in the
protocol so instead we're like working
around it with all of this crap and
every time you build a website you do it
in some non-standard way you just figure
out a way to do it and everyone has a
different way to do it none of our ways
are compatible and that means that it's
much easier for us to access data in our
own site than access data on someone
else's site that we're not sharing we're
not collaborating and we just build
these silos so the braid protocol
extends to http with synchronization so
that you don't need any of this crap
we're gonna throw in and instead we're
gonna actually do synchronization super
super well it's a hard problem but we
know we have CR D T's we have
operational transform you have version
control and the braid protocol supports
every month all these methods of
synchronization it's agnostic to the
particular one but it gives you but you
can get all their features and that
means that so on the left is how we
build websites today we have this whole
stack of stuff and each one's different
and every time you build a website you
have to wire together everything in a
different way with braid HTTP itself
handles the synchronization and so every
every piece of state you access it the
same way every piece of state has a URL
and let me show you what that means so
but here's let's say have a braid
website every black dot here is a URL
and you can access it from the client
from the server uniformly and that means
that you can also access some data on
some other server
just as easily as your own server or you
can make a different user interface that
different user interface can access data
on whatever server it wants and this
lets you make new user interface for any
website that you have and every user
themselves could even have their own
user interface and so we can get a
separation between the UI and the state
behind it and you can create your own UI
so you no longer have like a monopoly
power like right now just because
Facebook has all this data everyone has
to see their friends the same way
but if we build our social sites on
brain everyone can see their sites
however they want this I think goes
along with a lot of the local first
approaches as well like we're seeing
this we're seeing people separating the
state from whatever is happening locally
okay and when I just drew I don't know
if you could see that transition but you
can also have things peer-to-peer so
every little black dot is a URL you can
access any URL anywhere else so to do
this one of the big trick that makes
this work super well is great technology
with CRT T's and operational transform
that collapses differences distances
between time and space
this lets you program with state locally
or remotely just as easily so you can
access state on any website you can read
and write it as easily as a local
variable and you can do that in the same
offline first way as a CR DT lets you do
because any changes that happen on any
two computers merge in the same way so
this is an abstract model it's just like
what you're seeing right here this is
what we call a braid this is the reason
why the protocol is called a braid every
colored region here is a let's see if I
can pause it oh no that's got to click
kinda quick okay so every colored region
here is a patch
and these are three different computers
one two and three you can see the
network messages at the bottom that
they're sending so they're sending these
little set messages they have a patch
this patch says replace region from zero
zero with a Z Z Z it gives it a version
ID and it says which parent versions
that comes from and these patches are
just getting broadcast around the
network they receive them in different
orders or different sequences the each
has some text at the top and that text
is getting synchronized by aggregating
all these patches together and so the
colored regions are patches the reason
like this is emerge and so it merged
this Z Z Z AAA
with Z and n and M G Z and I got Z n N
and ng Z and as long as every computer
merges any two patches in the same way
they'll reach a consistent resulting
state and so what we the the so this is
the the basic model of a Brady of
patches you can fork when two things at
at the same time and you can merge
together and in order to get consistency
all computers have to merge in the same
way and so in order to do that we just
add something to HTTP called a merge
type the merge type says how two things
merge together and I think that's the
next slide perfect okay great
so now here's the actual protocol so
this is a put request an HTTP over here
is a get request and we're adding a
couple features so we're adding versions
we're adding patches and then with gets
we also add subscriptions
okay so this first first phase of braid
doesn't have any peer-to-peer features
but the data model of the braid which
you just saw in that last page that
visualization that totally supports
peer-to-peer messages we just don't have
a network transport yet okay this is
just let's get that data model and let's
extend that into HTTP n it turns out
HTTP is ordered really really close okay
so we just add so we had versions
patches and subscriptions basically so
in merge types so I'm gonna walk you
through this so over here on the left
you can do a put and then you specify a
version the version is just some unique
string okay it's whatever it is you can
encode in here a version vector if you
want so different CR DTS or operational
transforms will use different data types
for versions whatever it is you can
encode it in a string all the braid
cares about is that it's unique okay
then you encode the parent versions and
a parent versions is going to be a
sequence so string and this gonna comma
first string here's one with multiple
parents over here he has a content type
so this one's JSON and it has a merge
type so sync 9 is the name of the
algorithm that's doing that merge and so
as long as all the clients and Peter and
servers implement sync 9 they can all
merge the same way now this put is
contained with two patches okay so it
says patches 2 and now the and now it
knows that it's gonna find two patches
so here's one patch and here's the other
patch
and each path has a has a Content link
so that you know how long it is and you
know when the next patch starts now
here's an interesting thing content
arranged so this is specifying a path so
every Patrick replaces some region in
the document with another thing so this
is replacing the region that's specified
with JSON of dot messages and then from
in an inserting from one to one so it's
just inserting a nothing
kind of like an empty or a single
location it's inserting this and so this
is an array with an object this is
basically a message this is chat and the
person just posted a message to the chat
and here it's now saying that the second
patch said that the JSON of dot layed
has changed you're gonna add this object
okay and this is the date with a value
of some number
and so this would be like at editing a
message in a chat and then you get a
response that says okay so this is the
basic format or that we're adding to put
requests and then for a get the the big
feature we're adding is ability to not
just get one thing but to subscribe to
all upcoming changes until you're done
and that gives that's that's like a key
thing for synchronization and so we have
this a similar thing here we say git you
just have this a pet or subscribe and
say keep alive and then the response you
have multiple patches coming in and each
one is this the same format like over
here you can also I think one of these
is has no patch let's see yeah this one
doesn't even have a patch this is just
giving you a full so you can just give
the full body of the resources if you
want or you can say patches call in one
or whatever it is then you can give it
in patches as well okay that makes sense
guys cool
so I didn't have the demo prepared sorry
we'll have a demo of really good demo in
a couple months maybe sooner just
working on it so some of the benefits
though so you know the reload button
becomes unnecessary this the algorithms
can automatically guarantee this things
are in sync all updates can get pushed
automatically caches never get stale you
don't have to we get rid of all these
stupid heuristics like max age and HTTP
headers and you have to like get your
cache control right or otherwise things
are gonna cast right it's just handled
automatically which is really cool
network becomes a lot more efficient you
only send ad if you know if you go to
Facebook a second time it's just gonna
send you a different last time if a
resource like a file changes it'll
always send you a diff it's never gonna
redundantly send you stuff again you
have to write a whole lot code because
you're not wiring together things
anymore you'd like most of the logic
that I that we write in web apps is just
synchronization logic and this automates
all that this is the 70% is just an I
don't have any like theory for it I mean
that's the theory for it but we've
noticed this in our just our experiments
we rewrite programs using this model and
our web apps and it just gets rid of a
about 70% of code pretty consistently
and that's that's kind of a cool result
we also get an offline mode for free
which i think is relevant so you offline
first you get collaborative editors and
everything um the server can go down
your app can go well especially we don't
have well I don't have the pewter pure
mode over WebRTC but we do have one
working in the lab and that allows the
server to just go down your peers keep
connected you can continue chatting the
server can come back up if you want or
if you don't like that server you can
switch to another one you know someone
it can like fork it
and okay cool I think that was probably
about ten minutes so that's the website
thank you
yeah cool questions run again yeah let's
take a few minutes for questions what do
people want to ask right so this is very
cool
personal is somebody that worked on a CR
VP based work and no so challenging that
can be work so I guess my question is so
the synchronization bits I think is is
that made very clear but it seems like
some of the ideas here relates to kind
of like almost Semantic Web like
contents and the piece that I don't see
very clearly is querying so in terms of
actually being able to use States from
and as a place so it was they just push
to you as a part of kind of an existing
instruction I can see how that works but
what's about me wanting to access state
that is not already exposed in that way
so not exposed in that way so okay so
there's there's a couple pieces here I
guess one is what if the app has not
exposed the state in a particular way
that you need and then the other
question I'm hearing is querying is
there a connection between these two uh
I mean I it seems like these concepts
are related to me maybe that's not right
so it's okay so all are going to dress
them both to some degree so with
querying we don't prescribe anything
with querying you can do the same things
to do with HTTP okay so you can just put
a question mark in the URL add some
arbitrary stuff this is a it's like a
key value model just like the web okay
every URL is a key and it has a value at
the other end of it the different series
of the value is changing over time and
we've added the semantics of like a dag
of time that with this braid and the
ability to patch and synchronize and get
updates now if somebody said the second
question is like what if somebody has an
added braid support to their website and
you can you don't have to add braid
support you can still use regulation CTP
but you're not going to get the
synchronization semantics you're not
going to get guaranteed consistency in
some situations you might just want to
add a couple of these features of braid
like maybe just the versions or maybe
just the patches it's useful to do
patches without versions for instance if
you only have a single writer you don't
really need versions you know they're
all gonna come in in a certain order
you're gonna put them all in all in and
you still get diffs and stuff I don't
know if that answers your question you
can so you can kind of mix and match the
support you're doing you get different
variations of consistency features or
network efficiency depending on which
features you have so I guess it sounds
like you know if I want to query let's
say so okay was the Facebook example I
want to query that feed of a particular
user by another name but not the URL of
the defeat object I would rely on some
kind of search and polls that exposed to
now right yeah you could imagine
subscribing to that search endpoint or
you could do a search endpoint grab the
user's name or they you know the URL for
that users profile information and then
you could synchronize with that got it
well you can synchronize with both yeah
um have you thought about or I'm
wondering how this would fit in with
like cross-origin would we just use of
course yeah I know I thought about that
too and actually a controversial opinion
on Korres mom I looked into the root of
it
I think Korres was added because like if
you've ever programmed with Korres you
might have noticed that it's a pain in
the ass and it sucks and you know yeah
okay so I don't think I think we can
actually get rid of it in this new world
chorus in I did some in my in my
interpretation I think Korres is there
because websites were already web
servers web apps
built under the security assumption that
other browsers could not access you
access a page unless the user
specifically went there and that changed
when xmlhttprequest was introduced okay
and so Coors was like an oh moment
okay oh we just added a feature
into our web apps which allows other
sites to access our servers well okay
let's not allow that even though that's
really cool isn't it well okay let's let
people do it if like we if they
explicitly say it's okay which means
they bake the security model into their
app I think anytime we're moving to a
new app or new API for accessing on
multiple sites we can let go of that
annoying course thing and we could do it
like opt out instead of opt in I think
like WebSockets for instance are much
more permissive and the web hasn't broke
any last question before we move on all
right thank you so much Michael that was
great and I popped this I took some
notes which Michael you should look and
see what I wrote down wrong I do that so
feel free to construed and then now we
have Oliver in George I think both with
NYC mash effect was about a local chat
apps they're building on IVFs do you
guys have something you want to share on
the screen or just chat through
something um I could share my screen and
just give a quick intro to NYC miss
you're back nude yeah you're good
just find that share button a few nope
yep almost yeah there we go
we're we're a community network so
basically what we're doing just
connecting buildings and people directly
to each other with mostly rooftop
wireless antennas we have about 300
buildings connected now across the city
so two super nodes so this these are
located at internet exchange points so
this is where we gear directly with
other networks and then we have these
wireless links across the city rooftop
rooftop and that um distributes the
traffic for using OSPF for routing so
there's two goals or one is connecting
people directly today with the other
goal which i think is a little more
interesting is creating our own network
on with internal servers main active
even if the connection to the outside
internet goes down one we don't have any
super serious services you know we have
like Wikipedia Troon I think some people
have personal blogs George has been
working on my chat service and we've
been talking about ways we can do a lot
of stuff so it would be great to just
ensure that to you guys and any feedback
Georgiy wanna talk can you all hear me
yeah yeah okay super so basically as
Oliver said having a community built
network offers really interesting
opportunity to us it's I mean a lot of
the broader peer-to-peer services are I
feel like the kind of concept is
structuring the internet more like the
actual social
connections between people and so
reflecting that in the structure of the
network is a really cool opportunity so
firstly one of the benefits of having a
distributed network like ours is that
the resiliency model is hmm not having
everything be a spoken wheel model
allows for better resiliency each as
long as we can keep a subset of the
network up we can access the internal
network even if we lose connection to
the broader Internet so kind of from
that idea I was thinking of implementing
a chat service that uses IP FS for the
storage and distribution and the
starting point was having a private
swarm just for NYC mesh I think they're
a couple benefits ipfs is still
relatively new and so the scale running
it globally it's a little tricky but
internally within the mesh the scaling
isn't an issue it also allows us to
function completely even if the network
is partitioned in the broader Internet
and that's a really interesting
interesting property when you consider
potential like a disaster scenario for
example during Hurricane sandy the
internet for certain neighborhoods was
inaccessible for days in some parts over
a week and back then NYC mesh hadn't
really started but there was a mesh
service in a neighborhood in Brooklyn
and that was able to provide internet to
people in that neighborhood it's pretty
impressive accomplishment and so
basically the approach that I took was
having a private swarm
and then having bootstrap nodes inside
of the network and so the bootstrap
nodes thinking of having well-known
small computers like raspberry PI's that
are connected directly to antennas and
that's neat because you can run on
antenna it's a solar panel Raspberry Pi
as well yeah
cuts out as many external dependencies
possible so that's pretty much the
architecture it's pretty simple idea to
get off the ground we haven't gone very
far in terms of developing something
that is ready for users but proof of
concept is in place there's what does a
bootstrap node do the bootstrap yep so
fair warning my knowledge of ipfs is
still fairly basic the bootstrap node
when we have a client connect we
specified the bootstrap node for them to
find a first peer to join and so those
are just right now I have a Raspberry Pi
running on my node and so that's the
bootstrap node
oh so the mr. notice for the the chat up
not for the mesh itself well for the for
the mesh itself but the chat app kind of
piggybacks off of the sorry the
bootstrap notice for running ipfs on the
mesh our local squirrel okay okay and so
this is a piggyback okay and we're gonna
talk about the swarm you're talking
about the chat app you're not talking
about the bio think what do you thought
good the pipes no no yeah this is on top
of the actual NYC finish networking
energy structure cool okay
some other questions so it sounds like
there's that got a demo if we can recap
is there a repo or anything like that
yeah there is a repo
it's 180 lines of code I think Oliver
you're out of computer if you want to
share it on the command line you like
enter a name it hits the bootstrap
server and then yeah if you could just
drop that into the I went okay so it's
it's just it's a little hard to hear
what's that background noise yeah sorry
about that
yeah I think this might actually make a
good sure does anybody have other
questions before we move on are people
using the our kind of plan long term as
we develop more services on the mesh is
to have basically a captive portal so
when you join the mesh you join a public
node you see all of the different
services that are available and I think
that'll be a good opportunity to kind of
inject those into people's habits okay
so this the status right now is like it
sounds like this is a very cool idea of
using an IPS fast chat app on the New
York City mesh just because it seems to
fit really well with the network
infrastructure itself and it should be
pretty robust and you've been developing
it to some degree and then at some point
we'll be launching it I guess when the
the service available and like Paige
it's like there's much to apps you have
yeah it's you know it's been kind of a
piecemeal development effort there's the
project itself is you know has a lot of
challenges and mesh services are not the
have not been like a burning necessity
but it is definitely a something that
we're slowly working towards yeah cool
um how has it been building it so far
how do you has it been easy or hard yeah
I mean frankly was really easy it took
the basic demo took a couple days yeah
all of the I have to say that the ipfs
interface is very very friendly and easy
to use
[Music]
yeah especially with JavaScript now and
having a uniform interface yeah I was
surprised all right
how do you separate is that thank you
very much George and Oliver that's super
cool like how do you want to take it to
the discussion you had a night yeah
totally oh okay thank you sorry the
background noise just like kind of
scrambled my brain okay so yes I think
this is actually a perfect segue into
the topic that I wanted to talk about I
don't I don't have a presentation or
anything like that but there's a there's
a doc that summarizes these ideas and I
think it's already in the writing the
notes so if you're familiar if you're
not familiar with a BFS planning process
what we're doing this year is basically
or what we've
so here is to have kind of a public call
for themes for 2020 so kind of Northstar
goals for Foresta inform our development
and resource allocation and the idea
that I could in which is you know very
grandiose we type a little high social
impact applications
I think this of course we need other
kind of hide social effect things that
one can do but this is the subsets that
I saw as a very good fit for the
strengths and the mission of ipfs so and
by the way this these thoughts might be
kind of obvious to people who are
regular participants in AB local offline
matters oh thank you Carrie so I may be
preaching to the choir to certain extent
but I just wanted to talk through this a
little bit and get some feedback I did
see if you know anything can kind of
come together out of this so you know
where this idea came from it has been I
can take a lot of events this year
events like radical networks conference
here in New York a lot of kind of
meetups and other events with a focus on
not just Dec but the social implications
of the technology and one pattern that I
saw emerging is that a lot of folks in a
humanitarian disciplines so people
working with everything in situations
ranging from refugee camps so the
remotes or underserved regions
inner-city neighborhoods disaster zones
etc they seem to have
I'd have a consistent set of
requirements or like a technological
support framework even though they you
know they may operate in like very
different scales very different budgets
there's kind of a pattern that emerges
in what people seem to find useful or in
I guess the kind of challenges that they
face and the similarity sent to be that
they work in bandwidth constrained
environments so there's usually either
unreliable altogether missing or very
extensible playing to the rest of the
world there is a strong existing
community that has specific needs that
are defined by the community themselves
and not by an external actor and there
is a strong need to be able to share
information quickly and reliably in this
local environments and finally the
somewhat less common but still I think
very strong requirements is that the
tech needs to be maintainable by people
within the community that it is serving
rather than by outside consultants or
somebody like that so you know it
basically keeps working without the need
for and and outside agents you know
being present on a call and as I as I
looked at you know as I as I heard these
stories over and over again it's the the
thing that really stuck out to me is
that a lot of the properties that these
organizations want consistently are at
least theoretically enshrines and ipfs
values and design goals so we are we
should really be able to work in these
environments better than kind of a
standard web stack we should be able to
provide local routing and resiliency and
content integrity that a lot of these
folks need and it's not and the reality
is that most a you know I actually the
NYC mesh folks and somewhat weakened
this this argument but by actually
building on ipfs for opera environment
that kind of like one I imagine but a
lot of other folks don't seem to really
be aware or actively or akin towards
building articles were these situations
with which I give us there's a handful
that have used that and majority just
built on existing web web tech and
basically this made so this I think this
is a an opportunity for us to reflect to
understand why we are rarely chosen and
to perhaps try to close these gaps and
make the tooling available for
situations where it can make a really
dramatic difference in the lives of
people today aligned with our kind of
greater social impact mission so there's
not really a specific trajectory or
agenda that I I have laid out it's it's
like there's a few obvious gaps I think
one of the biggest being documentation
or examples address
this particular use case I think there
are a handful of challenges that we know
we're facing I think as you know as a
racing mesh folks already saw you know
you can deal the operates on the main
swarm so a lot of people operating in
kind of disconnected or potentially
disconnected network segments have
adopted privates worms
there's the bootstrap node is clearly it
like a single point of failure in the
configuration that's and we see much
adopted you could use multiple bootstrap
notes but that still does not eliminate
the most static points of failure so I
think it better which sort of discovery
mechanism is needed we need to become a
little bit more aware off kind of
different different connection classes
so we're not trying to connect to things
across a really expensive in a LAN link
when really what you want to do is work
with nodes this in a local network in
things like that but it's it seems it's
just like a very approachable goal and a
goal that will have a significant
positive impact today which is I think
something that we as an organization
have been seeking but not necessarily
always fun game so again these are very
abstract thoughts but I you know I
welcome I welcome any any and all
feedback
yes I know I believe there's a in the
same repo there's another proposal about
like mobile like focusing more about
mobile use cases I'm interested about
their overlap because usually the
communities which could benefit the most
from like like the centralization and
technologies like that and the local
Discovery story it's always like the
Mobile is always in the picture and I
wonder if you have like any deeper
thoughts about how could we like
leverage mobile for those high social
impact applications yeah no that's
actually this is something I should have
pulled out right away as one of kind of
the more obvious gaps I think a lot of
the time folks and disadvantage
positions are not going to be carrying
around like computers they will have
phones uh probably have over phones for
Android phones not extremely performance
but like battery life might also be a
big concern in a situation with our
interruption like you might not have a
lot of opportunities to charge so I
think this is some somewhere where we
are very far behind HTTP sure and I
guess one thing that I didn't really
mention but I feel like I should Colette
explicitly is that I think in this
situation in particular and for reasons
like mobile use case and other practical
limitations a lot of the time the people
building tools to these situations will
usually absolutely simplest technology
that actually does the job like I think
more so than in many other situations
like people will generally not be
building you know react websites with
like tons of JavaScript when people
people will be building the simple
like most static pages possible or using
off-the-shelf things little people
there's a lot of like WordPress is just
maybe not necessarily the best example
of simplicity per se but it is very very
off-the-shelf and is quite predictable
and familiar so I think it's up to us to
tell the story as to why we deliver
value that justifies using the
complexity of something like IP address
and I think this is a great this is the
great kind of proving ground that will
be a precedent for every other case
where we also it's gonna be a little bit
less less pressure in Adsense but
pushing ourselves through this will I
think improve every other situation as
well yeah I think that last point you
raised extends far beyond these use
cases like I personally find all
decentralized technology to be much
harder in terms of onboarding so there's
this like what is the actual benefit
right there's an article I'll drop a
link in here I didn't interview with
Nolan Lawson about this after he gave a
talk on it at one of the last offline
camps but in my mind you have like
amazing benefits that could make you use
something you're not familiar with
really super clear benefits or super
easy onboarding and at least one of
these has to be fabulous they can't both
be unclear and I see like so much
unfamiliar vocabulary in decentralized
stuff just the concept of like hosting
your own thing instead of using a
service that's already out there just
that federated like there's so much
vocabulary and there's a talk that
someone's writing up now on this like
this kind of beginner friendly language
problems from the last stuff I can't
um but I think that's not specific to
ipfs but explaining the benefits plus
making onboarding easier and vocabulary
more accessible those go hand in hand
and have to have at least one of them of
me I also just wanted to call out the
offline camp medium publication you'll
find a tab there with a collection of
stories about decentralization and a tab
there about developing world which
clearly what you're talking about isn't
always developing world situations but a
lot of the constraints that you see
there in terms of things I don't think
about everyday I don't need to think
about how the electricity affects my
Wi-Fi for example which some folks do
but there's there I think you'll find
relevant articles in the
decentralization one there are some
articles on people who are living in
like these intentionally kind of like
the NYC match like we want to have a
little a little community with our only
tools that we're serving on our own mesh
network and things like that like
internet in a box kinds of things so
there's some reading there and on
properly
yeah I just wanted to quickly respond to
your your first points which I fully
agree with but I also feel like the
amazing benefits parts can really shine
in some of these situations I think we
can maybe figure out the onboarding
through leveraging the benefits in a use
case where like our value proposition
can be relatively clear I think was you
know something like social networking
probably not going to be building that's
on ipfs for good reasons on kind of a
normal internet situation but for for
example the good archive folks were
telling me about a project where they
had used with us texts that were scanned
and digitized and ocr'd
and they were actually bringing them
back to Nepalese villages literally on
yak back in these these the servers and
I and they're they're just using normal
HTML in this case but it's like I can
just imagine being able to seamlessly
preserve and share these these X between
like a couple of villages that on like
opposite mountain peaks or something
like that and you have a way to access
the collection that is shared but it's
also validated and kind of transparently
available to you as a user like I think
I think it a use case like that we can
really explain why you want to use this
sector without necessarily having this
boasts polish onboarding process at
least the quality the developers so I
don't know I think there's a lot of a
lot of opportunity here I wanted to
piggyback on that thought
kind of a concrete project that I was
considering which how do you communicate
information in politically hostile
climates for example specifically how
how would you communicate in China and
Western China
so we your and not having to use the
broader Internet and being able to
transfer information and directly from
one phone to another in a private way
seems very interesting and being able to
separate the delivery piece from the
addressing like I'm trying to send a
message to my mother but we have mutual
friends and so I can pass along other
people's messages through the same
mechanism and that seems like something
that ipfs would be uniquely suited for
we've had some folks try to work on
literally that exact project a couple
year couple years ago unfortunately the
performance and routing ability just
wasn't there at the time but I think
it's probably going to be time to
revisit that idea this year we've done
our together yeah just say from the
perspective of the broader offline first
community not specifically
decentralization there are a lot of
reasons to implement an offline first
pattern and they include stuff that is
like generating money like if your thing
loads faster your company makes more
money but the arguments that I think
work better across audiences are the
humanitarian ones so I agree with you on
that front that you can find a use case
in this vein that will feel more warm
fuzzy and that's not like personally I
prefer to hear about the use cases that
come across as that than the ones that
come
process down with the government down
with whatever that sometimes the
centralization comes off as antagonistic
so I love the idea of using this kind of
humanitarian cases as the example so we
had two more minutes
any other comments on this discussion or
other thoughts I I guess I just wanted
to ask maybe that and waiting as well
just to chime you know feel free to
chime in a synchronously that's very
experiences hoping something very much
like this and I'd love to maybe try to
compile a parasitical kind of useless
case list in this name so I would love
any contributions awesome and the link
to that github issue that are cutting
mentioned is in the meeting notes um
well so I'm just gonna look at the
calendar for one second we meet on the
third Wednesday of the month so for
January that will be the 15th so the
same issue that you saw this meeting
posted in will be renamed with the new
date and we'll continue the conversation
there so if anyone has another topic
they want to discuss a demo of something
cool but they want to present let me
know you can always comment right on
that issue and this agenda slash meeting
note stock is the one we use so I'll add
a new section and we keep adding ideas
for next time it's great to see
everybody and thank you so much Michael
and Oliver and George and Arkady for
sharing and leading the discussion into
everybody who came to listen everybody
good day